feat(ColumnChooser): add column chooser (#2167)
Talend/ui: packages/components/src/List/Toolbar/ColumnChooserButton/README.md

# Column Chooser

- [Presentation](#presentation)
- [How to use it](#how-to-use-it)
- [Components](#components)
	- [ColumnChooserButton](#columnchooserbutton)
	- [ColumnChooser](#columnchooser)
	- [ColumnChooserHeader](#columnchooserheader)
	- [ColumnChooserFooter](#columnchooserfooter)
	- [ColumnChooserBody](#columnchooserbody)
	- [ColumnChooserRowRenderer](#columnchooserrowrenderer)
	- [RowVisibilityCheckbox](#rowvisibilitycheckbox)
	- [RowLabel](#rowlabel)
- [Hooks](#hooks)
	- [ColumnChooserManagerHook](#columnchoosermanagerhook)
- [Context](#context)
	- [columnChooserContext](#columnchoosercontext)
- [PropTypes and structure](#proptypes-and-structures)
	- [ColumnChooserPropTypes](#columnchooserproptypes)
	- [ColumnsChooserPropTypes](#columnschooserproptypes)
- [Utils](#utils)
	- [mergedColumnsChooser](#mergedcolumnschooser)
	- [compareOrder](#compareorder)

## Presentation
The column chooser is an overlay / popover component.
It allows you to edit the columns present in a list.
You can hide and show each column individually or by using the select all button.
The column chooser is present is the list toolbar.
The component uses hooks and context.

> 

Reviewer: add link to UX design

Either way you will have to update the columns props given to the list with the submitted values.

## Components
### ColumnChooserButton

The button which will trigger the popover with the form and content.
If you pass children you will override the default column chooser renderer.

| Props | Type | Info
|---|---|---|
| children | React.element | the content of the popover
| columns | array | these columns comes from the list, they will populate the popover
| id | string | Use as prefix for all the children components
| submit | function | callback trigger when the form is submit
| nbLockedLeftItems | number | the number of locked columns you want, beginning at the left
| t | function | i18n translate

### ColumnChooser

The base of the popover component.
This component holds the form. If you pass children you will override the default column chooser renderer.
The [columnChooserContext](#columnchoosercontext) is initialized here.

The component holds reference :
* Header : [ColumnChooserHeader](#columnchooserheader)
* Body: [ColumnChooserBody](#columnchooserbody)
* Footer :[ColumnChooserFooter](#columnchooserfooter)

| Props | Type | Info
|---|---|---|

> | children | React.element, [React.element] | the content of the popover

Reviewer: why 2 React.element?

Author: I can't put pipe or it will create another column.
I think the comma is ok to list all kind of accepted parameters.

| columns | array |  these columns comes from the list, they will populate the popover
| id | string | Use as prefix for all the children components
| onClose | function | callback trigger when the submit is done.
| nbLockedLeftItems | number | the number of locked items you want, beginning at the left
| submit | function | callback trigger when the form is submit, passed to the column manager hook (see hook)
| t | function | i18n translate

### ColumnChooserHeader

The header of the column chooser.
Title by default is "Modify columns".
You can pass children to the header to customize it.
It consumes the [columnChooserContext](#columnchoosercontext).

| Props | Type | Info
|---|---|---|
| className | string | class passed to the tooltip header

> | children | React.element, [React.element] | the header's content of the popover

Reviewer: is children related to customization at the beginning of the topic?

Author: Children allows customization yep.

The component holds reference :
* Visibility: [RowVisibilityCheckbox](#rowvisibilitycheckbox)
* Label: [RowLabel](#rowlabel)

| Props | Type | Info
|---|---|---|
| children | React.element, [React.element] | the row's  content of the popover

### RowVisibilityCheckbox

Add a checkbox to switch the visibility of a column.
If the column is locked, a locked icon replaces the checkbox.
It consumes the [columnChooserContext](#columnchoosercontext).

| Props | Type | Info
|---|---|---|
| index | number | the index of the column
| locked | bool | indicates if the column is locked or not
| value | bool | indicates the visibility value, and if the checkbox is checked

### RowLabel

Add the label of the column to the row.

| Props | Type | Info
|---|---|---|
| label | string | the label of the column

## Hooks
### ColumnChooserManagerHook

This hook manages all the logic behavior in the [ColumnChooser](#columnchooser).
It holds the state of the columns edited by the user.

| Parameters | Type | Info
|---|---|---|
| initColumns | array | array of columns object from the list
| nbLockedLeftItems | number | the number of columns that will be locked, left to right

> And it returns an object with some values and handlers

Reviewer: some values and handlers?

| Fields | Type | Info
|---|---|---|
| onChangeVisibility | function | change the visibility of the given column index|
| onSelectAll | function | change the visibility of every columns
| columnsChooser | [ColumnsChooserPropTypes](#columnschooserproptypes) | the hook columns
| selectAll | bool | state of the select all button, checked or not.

## Context

### columnChooserContext

> The column chooser uses a context to pass some props to its children and avoir props drilling.

Reviewer: typo avoir -> avoid

By default the context is initialized in [ColumnChooser](#columnchooser).
You can import directly the provider and the consumer from columnChooser.context
```
import { columnChooserContext, ColumnChooserProvider } 
															from '.../columnChooserContext'
```

## PropTypes and Structures

### ColumnChooserPropTypes

| Props | Type | Info
|---|---|---|
| label | PropTypes.string | the label of the column
| hidden | PropTypes.bool | the state of visibility of the column
| order | PropTypes.number | indicates the ordering of the column

### ColumnsChooserPropTypes

An array of [ColumnChooserPropTypes](#columnchooserproptypes)

## Utils
### mergedColumnsChooser
Helper to merge the columns chooser collection into the columns list.

### compareOrder

> Compare the order of the columns chooser collection and order them ascending

Reviewer: maybe add link to an implementation example

Author: We have the storybook for full example.

To keep the columns from the list sync with the inputs of the user, you will need to merge the data from the column chooser with the columns from the list.
There is a service to help you to do that, [mergedColumnsChooser](#mergedcolumnschooser).

```javascript
const columnsMergedWithColumnChooser = {
		...list,
		columns: columnChooserService.utils.mergedColumnsChooser(list.columns, columnsChooser),
};
<List {...rest} columnChooser={...} list={columnsMergedWithColumnChooser} />;
```
If you are using the compound list you just have to import the [ColumnChooserButton](#columnchooserButton), pass the props and place it where you need it. Do not forget to pass an id in this case.

```javascript
<ColumnChooserButton id={id} columns={...} nbLockedLeftItems={...} submit={...} />
```

Either way you will have to update the columns props given to the list with the submitted values in order to keep everybody sync.

## Components
### ColumnChooserButton

The button which will trigger the popover with the form and content.
If you pass children you will override the default column chooser renderer.

| Props | Type | Info
|---|---|---|

> | children | React.element | the content of the popover

Author: You mean React ==> react ?

| columns | array | these columns comes from the list, they will populate the popover
| filterValue | string | value of the filter at mounting
| id | string | Use as prefix for all the children components
| initialOpenedPopover | bool | state of the popover at mounting, show / hide
| placement | string | Position of the popover
| nbLockedLeftItems | number | the number of locked columns you want, beginning at the left
| submit | function | callback trigger when the form is submit

> | t | function | i18n translate

Author: I think you are making a mistake continuing coupling i18n to ui.

> | t | function | i18n translate

Author: The component will never live by itself, and will be always part of a parent element, which have to hold the translate hook. Or 90% of our component will hold a i18n hook.

### ColumnChooser

The base of the popover component.
This component holds the form. If you pass children you will override the default column chooser renderer.
A filterbar is also present and helps searching the column you need.
The [columnChooserContext](#columnchoosercontext) is initialized here.

The component holds reference :
* Header : [ColumnChooserHeader](#columnchooserheader)
* Body: [ColumnChooserBody](#columnchooserbody)
* Footer :[ColumnChooserFooter](#columnchooserfooter)

| Props | Type | Info
|---|---|---|
| children | React.element, [React.element] | the content of the popover

> | columns | array |  these columns comes from the list, they will populate the popover

Author: chooser is a thing ?

> | filterValue | string | the current value of the filter

Author: Changed it to have the same desdcription

| id | string | Use as prefix for all the children components
| nbLockedLeftItems | number | the number of locked items you want, beginning at the left
| submit | function | callback trigger when the form is submit, passed to the column manager hook (see hook)

> | t | function | i18n translate

Author: same remark too

You can pass a function as children, it will receive the columns as arguments.
Else, if children is not a function it will render normally.
It consumes the [columnChooserContext](#columnchoosercontext).

The component holds reference :
* Row : [ColumnChooserRowRenderer](#columnchooserrowrenderer)

| Props | Type | Info
|---|---|---|
| children | function | the body's  content of the popover, called with the columns as arguments.

### ColumnChooserRowRenderer

The row renderer only render its children.
It holds reference to other components: , .
By default, it consumes the [columnChooserContext](#columnchoosercontext).

The component holds reference :
* Visibility: [RowCheckbox](#rowcheckbox)
* Label: [RowLabel](#rowlabel)

| Props | Type | Info
|---|---|---|
| className | string | class passed to div wrapper row
| children | React.element, [React.element] | the row's  content of the popover

### RowCheckbox

Add a checkbox to switch the visibility of a column.
If the column is locked, a locked icon replaces the checkbox.
	dataFeature,
	describedby,
	description,
	id,
	label,
	locked = false,
	onClick,
	checked = false,

| Props | Type | Info
|---|---|---|

> | dataFeature | string | data-feature attribute of the input

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| dataFeature | string | input data-feature attribute
```

> | describedby | string | the id of the markup holding the description

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should set that in the api. You have a description prop just after, and if you don't want to use it, let's spread the rest instead of selecting them like that or you will need to add tons of other attributes in the proptypes.

Author: Props are required so have to be in documentation. Or I remove the required property.
Don't care.

| description | string | the description
| id | string | id of the checkbox input

> | label | string | label used

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| label | string | the input label
```

| locked | bool | indicates if the column is locked or not

> | onChange | func | trigger when the checkbox is clicked

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| onChange | func | triggered when the checkbox is clicked
```

> | checked | bool | indicates the visibility value, and if the checkbox is checked

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| checked | bool | the current visibility value
```

### RowLabel

Add the label of the column to the row.

| Props | Type | Info
|---|---|---|
| label | string | the label of the column

## Hooks
### ColumnChooserManagerHook

This hook manages all the logic behavior in the [ColumnChooser](#columnchooser).
It holds the state of the columns edited by the user.

| Parameters | Type | Info
|---|---|---|

> | initColumns | array | array of columns object from the list

Reviewer 2: This info is not that clear. Is it
- the initial columns ?
- the all the columns, updated if it changes ?
- the filtered columns ?

I think the naming is not right. The description  seems to indicate that it's the second choice but the name is disturbing

Author: What do you suggest ? These columns are the columns from the list and they will be transform to the columns chooser ones. They are not filtered. And they are used as the initial render to init the hook which hold the logic behind the column chooser.
I'm waiting for your suggestion before any change on naming.

> | nbLockedLeftItems | number | the number of columns that will be locked, left to right

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| nbLockedLeftItems | number | the number of locked columns, starting from the left
```

And it returns an object with hook state values and handlers to manipulate them.

| Fields | Type | Info
|---|---|---|
| onChangeVisibility | function | change the visibility of the given column index|
| onSelectAll | function | change the visibility of every columns

> | columnsChooser | [ColumnsChooserPropTypes](#columnschooserproptypes) | the hook columns

Reviewer 2: I don't understand what is the `hook columns` that is names XXChooser :/

Author: I simplify the shape of the column used by the column chooser (less data). They juste need 4 values and transform the hidden property to visible to be more straightforward with the checkbox input values.
So they are the columns shape of the column chooser api.

| selectAll | bool | state of the select all button, checked or not.

## Context

### columnChooserContext

The column chooser uses a context to pass some props to its children and avoid props drilling.
By default the context is initialized in [ColumnChooser](#columnchooser).

> You can import directly the provider and the consumer from columnChooser.context

Reviewer 2: `columnChooser.context` is not synced with the example just after.

Author: not synced ? didn't catch that... what do u mean ?

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```javascript
```

import { columnChooserContext, ColumnChooserProvider } 

> 															from '.../columnChooserContext'

Reviewer 2: indentation issue, and it doesn't appear in the page
<img width="527" alt="Capture d’écran 2019-08-06 à 11 21 07" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10761073/62527919-5380a880-b83c-11e9-96c1-3851ab6229d6.png">

```

## PropTypes and Structures

### ColumnChooserPropTypes

| Props | Type | Info
|---|---|---|
| label | PropTypes.string | the label of the column
| locked | PropTypes.bool | indicates the locked state
| order | PropTypes.number | indicates the ordering of the column
| visible | PropTypes.bool | the state of visibility of the column

### ColumnsChooserPropTypes

An array of [ColumnChooserPropTypes](#columnchooserproptypes)

## Utils
### mergedColumnsChooser

> Helper to merge the columns chooser collection into the columns list.

Reviewer 2: This is not clear. Can you describe its api ?

Author: What about : The columns you will receive from the column chooser are not synced with the one from the list.
So you will have to use this helper to merge the content given by column chooser with the one from the list.

> ### compareOrder

Reviewer 2: This is not exported

Author: removed
